DOCSP-25770: TLS setup (#666)
mongodb/docs-node: source/fundamentals/connection/tls.txt

.. _node-connect-tls:

==========================
Enable TLS on a Connection
==========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to connect to MongoDB instances with
the TLS security protocol. For more information on TLS, see the

> Wikipedia entry on :wikipedia:`Transport Layer Security <Transport_Layer_Security>`.

Reviewer: Put in admonition at end of section?

In addition to the ``tls`` client option, the driver provides additional
options to configure TLS on your connection. For **testing purposes**,
you can set the ``tlsAllowInvalidHostnames``,
``tlsAllowInvalidCertificates``, and ``tlsInsecure`` client options.

Setting the ``tlsAllowInvalidHostnames`` option to ``true`` disables
hostname verification, and setting the
``tlsAllowInvalidCertificates`` to ``true`` disables certificate
validation. Setting the ``tlsInsecure`` option to ``true`` disables
both certificate and hostname validation.
   
.. warning::

   Specifying any of these options in a production environment makes
   your application insecure and potentially
   vulnerable to expired certificates and to foreign processes posing
   as valid client instances.

For a full list of client options, see :ref:`node-connection-options`.

.. _node-configure-tls-certificates:

Configure Certificates
----------------------

To successfully initiate a TLS request, an application must prove its
identity by referencing cryptographic certificates. To connect to
MongoDB with TLS, your certificates must be stored as PEM
files. For more information on the PEM format, see the Wikipedia entry

> on :wikipedia:`Privacy-Enhanced Mail <Privacy-Enhanced_Mail>`.

Reviewer: Put in admonition at end of section?

.. important::

   For production use, your MongoDB deployment should use valid
   certificates generated and signed by the same certificate authority.
   For testing, you can use self-signed certificates.

The following list describes the components that you need to establish
a connection with TLS:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - TLS Component
     - Description

   * - Certificate Authority (CA)

>      - Either one or more certificate authorities to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - One or more certificate authorities to
```

       trust when making a TLS connection.

   * - Client Certificate
     - A digital certificate and key that allow the server to verify the identity
       of your application to establish an encrypted network connection.

   * - Certificate Key
     - The client certificate private key file. This key is often
       included within the certificate file itself.

   * - Passphrase
     - The password to decrypt the client private key if it is encrypted.

.. _node-client-tls-connect:

Reference Certificates in a Client
----------------------------------

> You must reference your certificates in your ``MongoClientOptions`` so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must reference your certificates in your ``MongoClientOptions`` object so
```

.. _node-connect-tls:

==========================
Enable TLS on a Connection
==========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to connect to MongoDB instances with
the TLS security protocol.

To configure your connection to use TLS, enable
the TLS option and provide your certificates for validation.

.. tip::
   
   To learn more about TLS, see the Wikipedia entry on
   :wikipedia:`Transport Layer Security <Transport_Layer_Security>`.

.. _node-enable-tls:

Enable TLS
----------

> You can enable TLS on a connection to your MongoDB instance

Reviewer 2: Might be worth calling out that if you are an `srv` record user, TLS is enabled by default.

in the following ways:

- Setting the ``tls`` option to ``true`` in your ``MongoClientOptions`` object
- Setting the ``tls`` option to ``true`` in your connection string

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClientOptions
      :tabid: mongoclientoptions

      To enable TLS on a connection by using an option in a
      ``MongoClientOptions`` instance, set the property ``tls`` to

>       ``true`` and pass the options object to the ``MongoClient`` constructor:

Reviewer 2: I find myself rereading this sentence, I don't have an exact suggestion for better phrasing but something like:

A MongoClient will connect using TLS if the options object has `tls` set to `true` like so
```ts
const client = new MongoClient(uri, { tls: true });
```

The main points to me is that `MongoClientOptions` is a typescript type and not something that can be made into an "instance" - its a detail but users might go looking for a constructor: "`new MongoClientOptions`" and minor but "a connection" vs "a client" I prefer to refer to the client.

       included within the certificate file itself.

   * - Passphrase
     - The password to decrypt the client private key if it is encrypted.

.. tip::
   
   To learn more about the PEM format, see the Wikipedia entry on
   :wikipedia:`Privacy-Enhanced Mail <Privacy-Enhanced_Mail>`.

.. _node-client-tls-connect:

Reference Certificates in a Client
----------------------------------

You must reference your certificates in your ``MongoClientOptions``
object so that the server can validate them before the client connects.
You can reference your certificates in the following ways:

- Create a ``SecureContext`` object to store certificates *(Recommended)*
- Provide filepath strings that point to your certificates
- Create ``Buffer`` objects to store certificates

.. _node-tls-securecontext:

Create a ``SecureContext`` Object to Store Certificates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We recommend that you use the ``secureContext`` option to configure
your TLS connection. ``SecureContext`` objects are native to Node.js
and allow you to keep all your TLS options in a single reusable object.

To create a ``SecureContext`` object, you must first install the ``tls``

> package and use it in your application. Next, call the ``tls.createSecureContext()``

Reviewer 2: Should be:

> To create a ``SecureContext`` object, import the ``createSecureContext`` function from the ``tls`` module.

The `tls` module is a standard library package available on all versions of Node.js

method and pass the contents of your certificates in the options parameter.
This method returns a ``SecureContext`` object that you can set as an option 
in your ``MongoClientOptions`` object.

The following code shows how to create a ``SecureContext`` object by
calling the ``tls.createSecureContext()`` method and set the
``secureContext`` client option:

.. code-block:: js
   :emphasize-lines: 2-6, 10
   
   // Create a SecureContext object

>    var sc = tls.createSecureContext({

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   const secureContext = tls.createSecureContext({
```

     ca: fs.readFileSync(`<path to CA certificate>`),

>      cert: fs.readFileSync(`<path to client certificate>`),
>      key: fs.readFileSync(`<path to client certificate>`),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     cert: fs.readFileSync(`<path to public client certificate>`),
     key: fs.readFileSync(`<path to private client key>`),
```

   });
   
   // Pass the SecureContext as a client option

>    const client = new MongoClient(uri, {
>      secureContext: sc,
>    });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   const client = new MongoClient(uri, { tls: true, secureContext });
```

With the variable renamed this can be made more succinct

To learn more about the ``tls.createSecureContext()`` method and the
``tls`` package, see the `Node.js TLS API documentation
<https://nodejs.org/api/tls.html#tlscreatesecurecontextoptions>`__.

For a runnable example that uses the ``secureContext`` client option, see
the :ref:`SecureContext Example <node-securecontext-full-example>`.

Provide Certificate Filepaths
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can include the filepaths for your certificates as client options to
retrieve your certificates while connecting with TLS.

The following code shows how to specify the ``tlsCAFile`` and
``tlsCertificateKeyFile`` client options with certificate filepaths: 

.. code-block:: js
   :emphasize-lines: 3-4
   
   // Pass filepaths to client options

>    const client = new MongoClient(uri, {
>      tlsCAFile: `<path to CA certificate>`,
>      tlsCertificateKeyFile: `<path to client certificate>`,
>    });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   const client = new MongoClient(uri, {
     tls: true,
     tlsCAFile: `<path to CA certificate>`,
     tlsCertificateFile: `<path to public client certificate>`,
     tlsCertificateKeyFile: `<path to private client key>`,
   });
```

Missing `tlsCertificateFile` and even though it could be set in the uri, just to make sure, we should have all the examples include tls:true, it it still required to enable tls even with the file paths provided.

Create ``Buffer`` Objects to Store Certificates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can pass the contents of your certificate files as ``Buffer``
objects in your client options to connect with TLS.

The following code shows how to read the contents of your certificate
files and pass the resulting ``Buffer`` objects to the ``ca``, ``cert``, and
``key`` client options:

.. code-block:: js
   :emphasize-lines: 2-4, 8-10
   
   // Read file contents
   const ca = fs.readFileSync(`<path to CA certificate>`);

>    const cert = fs.readFileSync(`<path to client certificate>`);
>    const key = fs.readFileSync(`<path to client certificate>`);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   const cert = fs.readFileSync(`<path to public client certificate>`);
   const key = fs.readFileSync(`<path to private client key>`);
```

   // Pass Buffers to client options

>    const client = new MongoClient(uri, {
>      ca: ca,
>      cert: cert,
>      key: key,
>    });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   const client = new MongoClient(uri, { tls: true, ca, cert, key });
```

Just being succinct

.. _node-securecontext-full-example:

``SecureContext`` Example
-------------------------

This example shows how to create a ``SecureContext`` object and
a ``MongoClient`` instance that includes TLS options. The example
connects to MongoDB and executes a find query:

.. code-block:: js
   

>    const { MongoClient } = require("mongodb");
>    const fs = require("fs");
>    const tls = require("tls");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   import { MongoClient } from "mongodb";
   import * as fs from "fs";
   import * as tls from "tls";
```

I think we use import syntax in our examples now mostly right? This is just a best practices thing, most users know how to translate between the two but we can save them an extra step (TS users likely want to see ^ this format)

Author: should we have code examples in JS and TS? Or at least include a note that the example is in TS?

Reviewer 2: I don't think it is necessary, we have this on the "How to Use the Usage Examples"

> All examples use ES module imports. You can [enable ES module imports](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html#esm_enabling) by adding the following key-value pair to your package.json file:

https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/node/current/usage-examples/#how-to-use-the-usage-examples

So we should stick to import syntax, it is not the default yet, but it is becoming the defacto standard for folks TS or JS, so we can just write code the modern way.

   
   // Replace the uri string with your connection string.
   const uri = "<connection uri>";
   
   // Replace the filepaths with your certificate filepaths.

>    var sc = tls.createSecureContext({

Reviewer 2: Apply the modifications above here too.

   hostname verification, and setting the
   ``tlsAllowInvalidCertificates`` to ``true`` disables certificate
   validation. Setting the ``tlsInsecure`` option to ``true`` disables
   both certificate and hostname validation.
   
   Specifying any of these options in a production environment makes
   your application insecure and potentially
   vulnerable to expired certificates and to foreign processes posing
   as valid client instances.

For a full list of client options, see :ref:`node-connection-options`.

.. _node-client-tls-connect:

Reference Certificates in a Client
----------------------------------

You must reference your certificates in your ``MongoClientOptions`` so
that the server can validate them before the client connects. You can
reference your certificates in the following ways:

- Create a ``SecureContext`` object to store certificates *(Recommended)*
- Provide filepath strings that point to your certificates
- Create ``Buffer`` objects to store certificates

.. _node-tls-securecontext:

Create a ``SecureContext`` Object to Store Certificates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We recommend that you use the ``secureContext`` option to connect with
> the TLS protocol. By using a ``SecureContext`` object to store your
> certificates, you use the Node.js framework for TLS that is independent of the
> driver. When you use this option, you keep all TLS options in a
> reusable object. This is the most organized way to set up
> TLS for your application.

Reviewer: S: Seems like we're trying to express the idea that using SecureContext has two specific advantages. To my eye, something like this makes that a little clearer:

```suggestion
We recommend that you use the ``secureContext`` option to configure
your TLS connection. ``SecureContext`` objects are native to Node.js
and let you keep all TLS options in a single reusable object. 
```

always happy to workshop!

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to connect to MongoDB instances with the
`TLS/SSL <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security>`__
security protocol. To configure your connection to use TLS/SSL, enable
the TLS/SSL settings in either your connection string or the
`MongoClientOptions <{+api+}/interfaces/MongoClientOptions.html>`__
for your client.

.. important:: TLS vs. SSL
   
   TLS is the successor protocol to SSL, but the terms are often used
   interchangeably. Since TLS is an improved version of SSL, this guide
   describes how to connect to MongoDB with the TLS protocol.

.. _node-enable-tls:

Enable TLS
----------

You can enable TLS on a connection to your MongoDB instance
in the following ways:

- Setting the ``tls`` option to ``true`` in your ``MongoClientOptions``
- Setting the ``tls`` option to ``true`` in your connection string

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClientOptions
      :tabid: mongoclientoptions

      To enable TLS on a connection by using an option in a
      ``MongoClientOptions`` instance, set the property ``tls`` as

>       ``true`` and pass the options to the ``MongoClient`` constructor:

Author: instance is good. will see if i can replace in other places

      
      .. code-block:: js
         :emphasize-lines: 2

         var myClientSettings = {
           tls: true,
           ...
         };
         
         const client = new MongoClient(uri, myClientSettings);

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connection string

      To enable TLS on a connection by using a connection string option,

>       set the parameter ``tls`` as ``true`` in the connection string URI

Author: I had it this way because the code snippets reference a uri. removed it but let me know if you think i should add it back

>       set the parameter ``tls`` as ``true`` in the connection string URI

Reviewer: our docs use "connection string" and "connection URI" interchangeably, and they probably shouldn't...

      that you pass to the ``MongoClient`` constructor:

      .. code-block:: js
         :emphasize-lines: 1

         const uri = "mongodb://<hostname>:<port>?tls=true";
         const client = new MongoClient(uri, myClientSettings);

.. _node-configure-tls-certificates:

Configure Certificates
----------------------

Applications that initiate TLS requests require access to
cryptographic certificates that prove the identity of the application
itself and other applications that the application
interacts with. To connect to MongoDB with TLS, your certificates must
be stored as ``PEM`` files, which are concatenated certificate

> containers.

Author: wiki article seems like a good addition

> containers.

Reviewer: Since this is going to an external site, can we make it clear per [Style Guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/links-and-cross-references/#make-link-text-clear)?

Even removing the inline link and putting it in an admonition instead.

For production use, your MongoDB deployment should use valid certificates generated and

> signed by the same certificate authority. For testing, you can use self-signed certificates.

Author: sure -- it is important

Configure TLS Client Options
----------------------------

In addition to the ``tls`` option, the driver provides client options
that you can use to configure TLS on your connection.

The following table describes the TLS client options that you can
specify to reference your certificates and connect to MongoDB with TLS
enabled. The first column describes Node.js options that you can specify

> when creating a :ref:`SecureContext <node-tls-securecontext>`. The second column describes

Author: Node.js can natively handle the certificates if you use the Node.js ``tls`` package. Alternatively, you can use the options given by the Node driver. I struggled to explain this because the explanation of secureContext is given in a later section. Do you think there should be a sentence here explaining when/why you should use the node options as opposed to the driver options?

> when creating a :ref:`SecureContext <node-tls-securecontext>`. The second column describes

Author: [this](https://mongodb.github.io/node-mongodb-native/5.2/interfaces/MongoOptions.html#tls) is the table I was trying to reproduce

     - | ``tlsCAFile``, type: ``string``
       | ``ca``, type: ``Buffer``
     - Specifies either a single or bundle of certificate authorities to
       trust when making a TLS connection.

   * - ``cert``, type: ``Buffer``
     - | ``tlsCertificateFile``, type: ``string``
       | ``tlsCertificateKeyFile``, type: ``string``
       | ``cert``, type: ``Buffer``
     - Specifies the client certificate file or the client
       private key file.

   * - ``key``, type: ``Buffer``
     - | ``tlsCertificateKeyFile``, type: ``string``
       | ``key``, type: ``Buffer``
     - Specifies the client private key file.

   * - ``passphrase``, type: ``string``
     - ``tlsCertificateKeyFilePassword``, type: ``string``
     - Specifies the password to decrypt the client private key.

.. note:: Additional TLS Client Options
   
   For **testing purposes**, you can set the ``tlsAllowInvalidHostnames`` and
   ``tlsAllowInvalidCertificates`` client options.
   
   Setting the ``tlsAllowInvalidHostnames`` option to ``true`` disables
   hostname verification.
   Setting the ``tlsAllowInvalidCertificates`` to ``true`` disables
   certificate validation and allows you to test a connection with an

>    invalid certificate, such as a self-signed certificate.

Author: I think self-signed certificate is a phrase we should keep together, but I can reword.

   
   Specifying either of these options in a production environment puts
   your application at risk of becoming
   `insecure <https://tlseminar.github.io/docs/mostdangerous.pdf>`__ or
   vulnerable to expired certificates and to foreign processes posing

>    as valid client instances.

Author: reworded to be more firm

For a full list of client options, see :ref:`node-connection-options`.

.. _node-client-tls-connect:

Reference Certificates in a Client
----------------------------------

You must reference your certificates in your ``MongoClientOptions`` so
that the Server can validate them before the client connects. The
driver provides multiple TLS-related client options to reference your

> certificates. You can connect with the following option configurations:

Author: I hesitate to use method because it means something else in a programming context.

- Passing a ``SecureContext`` object to the ``secureContext`` option *(Recommended)*
- Passing filepath strings to the ``tlsCAFile`` and
  ``tlsCertificateKeyFile`` options
- Passing ``Buffer`` objects that contain the contents of your
  certificates to the ``ca``, ``cert``, and ``key`` options

.. _node-tls-securecontext:

Create a ``SecureContext`` Object to Connect
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We recommend that you use the ``secureContext`` option to connect with
the TLS protocol. By using a ``SecureContext`` object to store your
certificates, you use the Node.js framework for TLS that is independent of the

> driver. When you use this option, you keep all TLS options in a

Reviewer: Q: is the independence an advantage or just a side effect?

Author: I think it is an advantage, since it protects you from any changes that may occur to the driver functionality.

reusable object. This is the most organized way to set up
TLS for your application.

To create a ``SecureContext`` object, you must first install the ``tls``

> package and use it in your application. The ``tls.createSecureContext()``
> method takes an options parameter that contains the contents of the
> certificates. The ``secureContext`` option in your
> ``MongoClientOptions`` takes the ``SecureContext`` object as its value,
> allowing the client to reference the certificates for validation.

Reviewer: I: These couple of sentences would be clearer if they were imperative/second-person

S:

```suggestion
package and use it in your application. Next, call the ``tls.createSecureContext()``
method and pass in the contents of the certificates as an options object. 
This method returns a ``SecureContext`` object that you can include as an option 
in your ``MongoClientOptions`` object.
```

Author: I wasn't sure if these sections should be structured as "tutorials," but I think given the action-oriented titles of the subsections, this seems like an appropriate change.

The following code shows how to create a ``SecureContext`` object by
calling the ``tls.createSecureContext()`` method and set the
``secureContext`` client option:

.. code-block:: js
   :emphasize-lines: 2-6, 10
   
   // Create a SecureContext object
   var sc = tls.createSecureContext({
     ca: fs.readFileSync(`<path to CA certificate>`),
     cert: fs.readFileSync(`<path to client certificate>`),
     key: fs.readFileSync(`<path to client certificate>`),
   });
   
   // Pass the SecureContext as a client option
   const client = new MongoClient(uri, {
     secureContext: sc,
   });

To learn more about the ``tls.createSecureContext()`` method and the
``tls`` package, see the `Node.js TLS API documentation
<https://nodejs.org/api/tls.html#tlscreatesecurecontextoptions>`__.

> To see a runnable example using the ``secureContext`` client option, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see a runnable example that uses the ``secureContext`` client option, see
```

> To see a runnable example using the ``secureContext`` client option, see

Reviewer: S: Repeats "see"

```suggestion
For a runnable example using the ``secureContext`` client option, see
```

the :ref:`SecureContext Example <node-securecontext-full-example>`.

Reference Certificate Filepaths to Connect
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can reference the filepaths for your certificates as strings in your
> client options to connect with TLS.
> 
> The following code shows how to specify the ``tlsCAFile`` and
> ``tlsCertificateKeyFile`` client options with certificate filepaths: 

Reviewer: S: You're not exactly _referencing_ the filepaths--more like explicitly including them

```suggestion
To include the filepaths of your certificates as strings in your client options object,
use the ``tlsCAFile`` and ``tlsCertificateKeyFile`` options:
```

Author: reworded, but i think each section should still have an introductory sentence before the code intro
